Flags that trackside marshals wave are a common theme across all motor racing to give a driver a visual indication of a situation, and F1 is no exception.
Although all the cars have radio systems and information fed through to the drivers as they lap a circuit, the flag system, complemented by LED boards in the modern era, is a surefire way to make all drivers aware of the track's status.
Yellow Flag
The yellow flag indicates that a driver should be aware of an incident ahead of them where they may need to take avoiding action and must not overtake.
When a marshal waves a single yellow flag, the driver must slow down due to the upcoming hazard, but if they wave two yellow flags, this denotes a more serious incident where a driver must prepare to come to a stop.
Green Flag
The green flag is the antithesis of a yellow flag and indicates to a driver that the track ahead is incident free and that they may drive or race at full speed.
A green flag usually follows a yellow flag to indicate to a driver that the incident area is behind them, and they can race freely from where the marshal is waving the green flag.
Red Flag
If conditions on the track reach a level where driving is unsafe, either from weather, a crash, or something else, the red flags wave at every marshal post to inform all drivers that they must proceed with caution and return to the pit lane.
Blue Flag
A driver will see a blue flag to warn them that a faster driver is approaching them from behind, and they should be aware of their presence.
In Free Practice and Qualifying, this may be from a rival setting a fast lap while another driver is on a slower lap.
Blue flags in a Grand Prix indicate that the car behind is coming up to 'lap' a driver, meaning they have completed an extra lap or more of the track, and the driver must let them by as soon as possible.
Race control will penalise drivers for impeding their rivals if they ignore three subsequent blue flags during the race.
Black and White Flag
Should a driver drive in an unsportsmanlike way, such as cutting a corner or being too aggressive with other drivers, a black and white flag warns that their behaviour must change or risk disqualification.
Black Flag
The level past a black and white flag is the black flag, which indicates that a driver's driving standards are too low, so race control has disqualified them from the race.
A driver should return to the pit lane when they see this flag accompanied by their car's number.
Black Flag with Orange Disc
Affectionately called the meatball flag for the orange circle's resemblance to the food, the black flag with an orange disc indicates a driver has a mechanical problem with their car and must pit for repairs immediately.
Chequered Flag
The chequered flag, the one most associated with racing, waves at a session's conclusion to tell the drivers that the Free Practice, Qualifying, or Grand Prix is over.